Hello everyone and welcome to part one of the Bitstrips section of the course.
A key feature of bootstrap arts default classes.
You can call these classes to quickly and easily build good looking features for your web application.
We're going to be going over button classes as well as the container and Jumbotron classes.
First though we start off by showing how to connect an html file to bootstrap itself.
Let's get started.
We're going to open up my text editor toonies HTML file as well as my browser and Cziko get bootstrapped
dot com again.
Let's get started.
All right so here you have my editor open as well as my browser.
I have an empty page.
You know files linked to my browser.
Let's get started by showing you how it actually connected nature T.M. content to bootstrap.
So I just type.
H Tim Allen got the basics going and if you go to get bootstrap dot com and click on download bootstrap
will eventually take you to this getting started Ted.
And you basically have two options here.
One is to download the bootstrap files yourself and then link them locally on your computer so you'll
be downloading a CSX file and then you can link that locally just as we've done for other CSSA files.
Or you can just use the Cdn which basically is an online host for you to connect to.
So you can just grab this link right here and you can grab all of these if you want but we're keeping
it simple so we'll just grab this right now which is the only link we need.
For this particular lecture and if you scroll down you'll actually see there is pre-compiled bootstrap
bootstrap source code.
But keep scrolling down there's a basic template so usually will probably end up starting with this
entire basic template which includes things such as Jay queery and some Javascript code.
But right now we don't know enough about that to actually use it.
So we're going to use the very first link we saw here which is the latest compile and a minute fight.
SS So if we zoom in a little more this is the link I'm using.
All right.
So that's ready to go.
Let's actually test it out.
By creating a heading one in the body will say bootstrap exclamation mark.
And let's actually comment out of control or command forward slash the link to that style sheet just
to make sure it's working.
So if I refresh this project that it's CML it's linked to it.
I see bootstrap.
Now if I turn the link back on and uncomment it and refresh noticed what happens to the font the font
changes to boot straps default font and that is one quick and easy way you can tell if bootstrap is
successfully working.
Keep in mind you do need an internet connection for this to work.
If not you'll have to download the files manually.
Either way you're going to need the internet connection at some point in time.
But if you're watching that video it's probably because you have an internet connection.
Let's discuss a container class.
So I'm going to create a DIV tag and right now I'll leave it class list but I'm going to add heading
one that says
Hello world.
Exclamation mark.
Save it refresh.
And I can see that my hello world heading is actually right against the left hand side of my browser
so as expand my browser it's still there on the left hand side.
What I can do to try to center a little bit off that left hand browser is put it in what's known as
a container class.
And what's really nice about bootstrap it basically comes with a bunch of predefined classes free to
easily call in your code and you don't have to worry about memorizing all these class names are going
to be seeing the main thing you have to learn out of this section of course is how to reference the
documentation which will be showing you when we talk about buttons.
But notice the hello world is now in the class container so if I refresh this I see that it's centered
and down a little bit.
So basically just affected the margin spacing.
You can see here as I expand this window or as I begin to collapse it more it's to try that it's best
to say a little more centered or a certain distance off of the left hand side of the browser which is
exactly what we want.
So delete this now and continue on.
OK now that we've explored the container class a little bit it's going to be something we explore a
lot more as we continue through bootstrap it's time to talk about the button classes that are available
to him bootstrap if you come to the link at the strip that com slash CSSA which if I expand this browser
you'll see here it's in the top nav bar you can just click on CSSA there is a right hand side column
here we have some sections and click on buttons and basically bootstrap comes with some button classes
that you can easily call and you can call him on three separate types of tags you can call it on an
anchor tag rumor that's a tag of a link to it.
You can call it on a button tag something we haven't actually talked about yet but we're going to be
doing in the section right now and in impot tags something we've used for forms.
We'll actually be discussing forms in the next lecture.
So right now let's explore using the button tech which we haven't actually seen it in action.
Now the button tag basically allows us to create a button scroll back down to where we had the buttons
OK I just scrolled back down to the buttons and let's add a button to our H.T. Malca.
So I will say button and we'll keep the type button and name button to be the default there and let's
say something like click on that button will refresh and.
Now you can see we have a button here that I can click but really nothing happens.
And the reason we really talk about Button tags and H.M.S. the course or the CSSA section the course
is because before we know javascript there's not much we can actually do of these buttons themselves.
Right now we're learning about them because of the typical styling choices you bootstrap on them.
But keep in mind we won't actually be able to really activate anything upon a click of a button.
Besides a simple connection to another Web site we can do that also if an anchor tag.
It's not until we reach javascript or we're actually going to be clicking buttons and making things
change on the web page.
All right.
So here's my button Ted.
Now let's discuss bootstrap classes with buttons and this is basically the way you're going to be using
the bootstrap documentation.
I keep stressing that documentation is really important with bootstrap and I'm going to show you why.
So he keeps scrolling down and buttons and you see here we have options.
So these are available buttons that quickly create a style button and there's basically just a couple
default button types there's default primary success in forewarning danger and the way you utilize these
classes with bootstrap.
And we utilize bootstrap in general just by specifying class is equal to.
And then you specify whatever class you want.
So let's say if we come back here to our project they smell we want to turn this click button into the
style of a success button.
So we just come here.
Look at success and see it's beauty and space beauty and success.
So there's a button or between the success save it.
Come back here refresh.
And now it looks like a success button.
Great.
So coming down we can keep saying that there's more stuff we can add.
So fancy larger or smaller buttons you can continue to add for more classes.
So now it can add PTEN dash Elgie.
So let's do that I'll say between dash Elgie to make that into a large button.
So I come back here refreshed we can see that the bunds gotten a little bit larger.
We can continue them see things such as active state so benzyl appear pressed when active we can also
do things such as make it disabled state.
So if we want to make it look disabled all I have to do is say disabled is equal to the Seybold So it's
copy and paste that.
And that's actually another parameter property of this button tag will it save it and it lets actually
create another button so we can compare it to.
So I will create one button just copy and paste this.
It has disabled on.
Let's say this is I am on the bottom one will say disabled and the one of has I am on we are going to
delete this disabled marker on it or the Seybold parameter will save it refresh here.
Now you can see the I am on I can click on that and hover over the Seybold Google Chrome this let me
click on it.
It shows that nice little icon it says this is not clickable.
And there's a quick note you can always override these default style so maybe you like the success button
that you want to make the text a different color.
All you have to do is in your CSSA file grab the T.N. between that access call it your own class and
your CSSA file and you could overwrite individual aspects of it.
It will override everything.
It'll just overwrite whatever aspects that you want to overwrite.
So if you want to overwrite the text color a text background you could do that yourself just with your
C Ss and just calling this class a success.
You could do that yourself.
All right.
Now it's finally talk quickly about the Jumbotron which is something we'll be using a little bit throughout
this course.
So a view with the Jumbotron actually looks like we're going to hop back over to the get bootstrap page
and let me expand this so it can see the nav bar and I'm going to click on components and components
as we scroll down we'll see a bunch components are going to talk about later on such as nav bars labels
stuff like that but you keep scrolling down you'll see the Jumbotron component and we see that Jumbotron
is basically a lightweight flexible component that can extend the interview port to showcase key content
so you can think of this almost like a landing page and this is the most basic Jumbotron.
It has some large file.
Here are some large Hedding some simple hero unit whatever and then a button there so we can actually
just copy and paste this
and put it into our ECMO
So we say hello world.
I thought that is the paragraph.
So I'll say something like this is the
paragraph save that.
And let's actually see this now on our project page refresh what we see here.
Now we have an H T M L Jumbotron.
Usually however you're going to want this Jumbotron to be within a container so it doesn't take up this
entire page.
Well we will do then is put this inside of a container class grabbed this entire jumbo division or the
Vider there stick it inside save it.
And I want to refresh.
I can see that it's basically centered like it was here on this page and that's really the main idea
of bootstrap going to come over here.
See what you need.
So if you want to know how to use an alert you just come here to the olor and you can read the examples
here you see here there's a class alert roll etc..
So so far we learn about where the basic button classes which you can always check out by coming to
the CSSA page and then clicking on buttons and you can see the various button tasks that are available
to you.
Then we also learn about the container class which you didn't think of as just basically centering stuff
on your page.
And then we also learned about the Jumbotron class.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.